source/components/nitropad-nitropc/sealed-hardware.rst, before:

Verify Sealed Hardware
======================

.. contents:: :local:

If you ordered your NitroPad or NitroPC with sealed screws and in a sealed bag, it allows you to check if it has been tampered with during shipping.

The bag and all screws on the bottom of the device have been sealed. For the bag and each of these screws you have received a photo by e-mail. The orientation of the photos is such that the battery is on top.

1. Check each screw individually to see if its individual appearance
   matches the photo. It is best to use a magnifying glass or macro lens
   for this purpose. The screws are numbered as follows.
   
   Nitropad NV41:
   
   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/nv41_sealed.jpg
      :alt: NV41

   Nitropad NS50:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/ns50_sealed.jpg
      :alt: NS50

   Nitropad V54:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/V54_sealed.jpg
      :alt: V54

   NitroPad X230:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/SchraubenmarkierungX230.jpg
      :alt: X230

   NitroPad T430:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/SchraubenmarkierungT430.jpg
      :alt: T430


   This example shows a sealed screw whose glitter represents an
   individual pattern.

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/Schraube.jpg
      :alt: img


2. If the bag or the screws do not match the photos sent, an
   unauthorized opening of your NitroPad or NitroPC cannot be excluded. In this
   case please contact us to arrange further action.

Commit message:

tamper instructions for NitroPC Pro 2

source/components/nitropad-nitropc/sealed-hardware.rst, after:

Verify Sealed Hardware
======================

.. contents:: :local:

If you ordered your NitroPad or NitroPC with sealed screws and in a sealed bag, it allows you to check if it has been tampered with during shipping.

The bag and all screws on the bottom of the device have been sealed. For the bag and each of these screws you have received a photo by e-mail. The orientation of the photos is such that the battery is on top.

1. Check each screw individually to see if its individual appearance
   matches the photo. It is best to use a magnifying glass or macro lens
   for this purpose. The screws are numbered as follows.
   
   Nitropad NV41:
   
   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/nv41_sealed.jpg
      :alt: NV41

   Nitropad NS50:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/ns50_sealed.jpg
      :alt: NS50

   Nitropad V54:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/V54_sealed.jpg
      :alt: V54

   NitroPad X230:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/SchraubenmarkierungX230.jpg
      :alt: X230

   NitroPad T430:

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/SchraubenmarkierungT430.jpg
      :alt: T430
   
   NitroPC Pro 2:

      For the NitroPC Pro 2 we use tamper evident tape on the casing.
      After receiving your computer check that no tape have been removed.
      Then you can remove the tape and use rubbing alcohol to remove the tamper marks.


   This example shows a sealed screw whose glitter represents an
   individual pattern.

   .. figure:: /components/nitropad-nitropc/images/Schraube.jpg
      :alt: img


2. If the bag or the screws do not match the photos sent, an
   unauthorized opening of your NitroPad or NitroPC cannot be excluded. In this
   case please contact us to arrange further action.
