source/components/nitrokeys/nitrokey3/troubleshooting.rst, before:

Troubleshooting
===============

Here you will find a collection of common issues.


Nitrokey is Not Detected on Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the Nitrokey is not detected, proceed as follows:

1. Copy this file
   `41-nitrokey.rules <https://www.nitrokey.com/sites/default/files/41-nitrokey.rules>`__
   to ``/etc/udev/rules.d/``.
2. Restart udev via ``sudo service udev restart`` or ``udevadm control --reload-rules && udevadm trigger`` if you are using Fedora.

 

Google and Microsoft Services
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Currently there seems to be a bug we hope to fix soon which affects the Nitrokey 3 working with some Google and Microsoft Services per FIDO2.

Timeout Bug
^^^^^^^^^^^

There is a bug with the Nitrokey being recognized by the system, where a timeout occurs before the connection succeeds. 

NFC is Not Working
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Please make sure FIDO2 is working correctly. Otherwise NFC won't work either.

Also check if you are using the right spot on your smartphone. 
Find the right spot using: `nfc.fail`_. 

The backside of the Nitrokey has to be held against the smartphone. For the USB-A version it might be helpful to lift the side with the USB connector slightly to reduce the distance to the end part of the stick. 

If you have a phone cover, try to find the right spot first without it. Retry afterwards with the cover.

The search of the optimal spot sometimes took up to 20-30 sec. In our experience holding the Nitrokey in an horizontal orientation yields better results.If you still encounter issues please write a mail to our support. For optimal help please include the shipping/order number and your smartphone model. 

OpenPGP Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

GnuPG: OpenPGP Card Not Available
---------------------------------

**Problem:**
GnuPG cannot access the Nitrokey 3 and shows an error message like this::

    $ gpg --card-status 
    gpg: selecting openpgp failed: No such device
    gpg: OpenPGP card not available: No such device

**Solution:**
There are two common smartcard services on Linux systems: ``scdaemon``, GnuPG’s smartcard daemon, and ``pcscd``, a generic smartcard daemon.
``scdaemon`` has two drivers for accessing smartcards:
Its integrated ``ccid`` driver tries to directly access the smartcard.
The ``pcsc`` drivers uses the ``pcscd`` daemon instead.

A smartcard can only be accessed directly by one daemon.
This means that depending on the startup order, ``pcscd`` might lock the card before ``scdaemon`` tries to access it using the internal ``ccid`` driver.
Therefore we recommend to use the ``pcscd`` driver for ``scdaemon``.
You can activate it by adding ``disable-ccid`` to the ``~/.gnupg/scdaemon.conf`` config file and restarting ``scdaemon``, for example with ``gpg-connect-agent "SCD KILLSCD" /bye``.
If this does not fix the problem, see the next section for more information.

Alternatively, you can deactivate or uninstall ``pcscd`` to avoid this conflict.

pcscd: Card Not Found
---------------------

**Problem:**
An application using ``pcscd`` does not show the Nitrokey 3.

**Solution:**
First, make sure that ``scdaemon`` is not running (see the previous section)::

    $ gpg-connect-agent "SCD KILLSCD" /bye

Now list the smartcards recognized by ``pcscd`` with ``pcsc_scan -r``.
You should see an entry like this one::

    $ pcsc_scan -r
    Using reader plug'n play mechanism
    Scanning present readers..
    0: Nitrokey 3 [CCID/ICCD Interface] 00 00

If the Nitrokey 3 shows up, it is recognized correctly by ``pcscd`` and there might be an issue with the application that tries to access it.
If it does not show up, make sure that your ``libccid`` version is up to date.
Support for the Nitrokey 3 was added in ``libccid`` 1.5.0.

Updating The Device Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you cannot update ``libccid`` to a supported version, you have to manually update the device database.
The path of the database depends on your distribution:

- Arch, Debian, Ubuntu: ``/etc/libccid_Info.plist``

Make sure to backup the file before overwriting it.
You can download an `updated device database file <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nitrokey-3-firmware/blob/main/Info.plist>`__ from the ``nitrokey-3-firmware`` repository.
After updating the file, restart ``pcscd`` and run ``pcsc_scan -r`` again.
The Nitrokey 3 should now show up.

Update Via update.nitrokey.com Does Not Work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Currently the web updater doesn't support the Nitrokey 3. However you can get the latest firmware using these `instructions <firmware-update.html>`_. 


.. _nfc.fail: https://nfc.fail/

Commit message:

PIV troubleshooting (#320)
* PIV troubleshooting

* nitropy PIV feature

* Link to shop fixed

source/components/nitrokeys/nitrokey3/troubleshooting.rst, after:

Troubleshooting
===============

Here you will find a collection of common issues.


Nitrokey is Not Detected on Linux
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If the Nitrokey is not detected, proceed as follows:

1. Copy this file
   `41-nitrokey.rules <https://www.nitrokey.com/sites/default/files/41-nitrokey.rules>`__
   to ``/etc/udev/rules.d/``.
2. Restart udev via ``sudo service udev restart`` or ``udevadm control --reload-rules && udevadm trigger`` if you are using Fedora.

 

Google and Microsoft Services
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Currently there seems to be a bug we hope to fix soon which affects the Nitrokey 3 working with some Google and Microsoft Services per FIDO2.

Timeout Bug
^^^^^^^^^^^

There is a bug with the Nitrokey being recognized by the system, where a timeout occurs before the connection succeeds. 

NFC is Not Working
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Please make sure FIDO2 is working correctly. Otherwise NFC won't work either.

Also check if you are using the right spot on your smartphone. 

The backside of the Nitrokey has to be held against the smartphone. For the USB-A version it might be helpful to lift the side with the USB connector slightly to reduce the distance to the end part of the stick. 

If you have a phone cover, try to find the right spot first without it. Retry afterwards with the cover.

The search of the optimal spot sometimes took up to 20-30 sec. In our experience holding the Nitrokey in an horizontal orientation yields better results.If you still encounter issues please write a mail to our support. For optimal help please include the shipping/order number and your smartphone model. 

OpenPGP Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

GnuPG: OpenPGP Card Not Available
---------------------------------

**Problem:**
GnuPG cannot access the Nitrokey 3 and shows an error message like this::

    $ gpg --card-status 
    gpg: selecting openpgp failed: No such device
    gpg: OpenPGP card not available: No such device

**Solution:**
There are two common smartcard services on Linux systems: ``scdaemon``, GnuPG’s smartcard daemon, and ``pcscd``, a generic smartcard daemon.
``scdaemon`` has two drivers for accessing smartcards:
Its integrated ``ccid`` driver tries to directly access the smartcard.
The ``pcsc`` drivers uses the ``pcscd`` daemon instead.

A smartcard can only be accessed directly by one daemon.
This means that depending on the startup order, ``pcscd`` might lock the card before ``scdaemon`` tries to access it using the internal ``ccid`` driver.
Therefore we recommend to use the ``pcscd`` driver for ``scdaemon``.
You can activate it by adding ``disable-ccid`` to the ``~/.gnupg/scdaemon.conf`` config file and restarting ``scdaemon``, for example with ``gpg-connect-agent "SCD KILLSCD" /bye``.
If this does not fix the problem, see the next section for more information.

Alternatively, you can deactivate or uninstall ``pcscd`` to avoid this conflict.

pcscd: Card Not Found
---------------------

**Problem:**
An application using ``pcscd`` does not show the Nitrokey 3.

**Solution:**
First, make sure that ``scdaemon`` is not running (see the previous section)::

    $ gpg-connect-agent "SCD KILLSCD" /bye

Now list the smartcards recognized by ``pcscd`` with ``pcsc_scan -r``.
You should see an entry like this one::

    $ pcsc_scan -r
    Using reader plug'n play mechanism
    Scanning present readers..
    0: Nitrokey 3 [CCID/ICCD Interface] 00 00

If the Nitrokey 3 shows up, it is recognized correctly by ``pcscd`` and there might be an issue with the application that tries to access it.
If it does not show up, make sure that your ``libccid`` version is up to date.
Support for the Nitrokey 3 was added in ``libccid`` 1.5.0.

Updating The Device Database
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you cannot update ``libccid`` to a supported version, you have to manually update the device database.
The path of the database depends on your distribution:

- Arch, Debian, Ubuntu: ``/etc/libccid_Info.plist``

Make sure to backup the file before overwriting it.
You can download an `updated device database file <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nitrokey-3-firmware/blob/main/Info.plist>`__ from the ``nitrokey-3-firmware`` repository.
After updating the file, restart ``pcscd`` and run ``pcsc_scan -r`` again.
The Nitrokey 3 should now show up.

Update Via update.nitrokey.com Does Not Work
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Currently the web updater doesn't support the Nitrokey 3. However you can get the latest firmware using these `instructions <firmware-update.html>`_. 

PIV Troubleshooting
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Pyscard is not available
------------------------

If pyscard is not available to nitropy, you might get the following error when trying to use the PIV functionality:

    This command requires the pyscard library that is not available on your system. Please consult https://docs.nitrokey.com/nitrokeys/nitrokey3/troubleshooting#pyscard-is-not-available for more information

To fix this error, please install nitropy with the `pcsc` extra dependencies:

    pip install pynitrokey[pcsc]
    pipx install pynitrokey[pcsc]

If you install pynitrokey through another distrubition channel, please install all optional dependencies for this channel.
