nethsm/integration.rst, before:

Integration
===========

The chapter describes processes for various tasks and aims at all user groups.

REST-API
~~~~~~~~

NetHSM's primary interface is a modern REST-API that guarantees best performance and functionality.
The API specification is available in `OpenAPI format <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml>`_,
and can be inspected and tested in the `API browser <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/index.html>`_.

PKCS#11
-------

The NetHSM supports the PKCS#11 standard.
The required driver is available from the `repository <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-pkcs11>`__.
The repository containes the source code and libraries, for different operating systems.
The `PKCS#11 guide <pkcs11-setup.html>`_ describes the usage in detail.

Development and Testing
-----------------------

A public NetHSM demo instance is available at `nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api/v1/info>`_. It will be reset every eight hours (CET 6:00, 14:00, 22:00). User "admin", password "adminadmin", unlock password "unlockunlock".

Alternatively, you can run the NetHSM as a `Docker container <https://hub.docker.com/r/nitrokey/nethsm>`_ locally.

The container can be executed as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ sudo docker run --rm -ti -p8443:8443 nitrokey/nethsm:testing

   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti -p8443:8443 docker.io/nitrokey/nethsm:testing 

This will run NetHSM as a Unix process inside the container and expose the REST API on the port `8443` via the HTTPS protocol.

Additionaly to running the NetHSM as a Unix process it can be run as a unikernel supported by KVM.

The container can be executed as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run -ti --rm -p 8443:8443 --device /dev/net/tun --device /dev/kvm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN nitrokey/nethsm:testing

This will run NetHSM as a unikernel inside a KVM virtual machine.
The container will expose the REST API, via the HTTPS protocol, on the interface `tap200` with the IP address `192.168.1.100` and port `8443`.

.. important::
   The container uses a self-signed TLS certificate.
   Make sure to use the correct connection settings to establish a connection.
   Please refer to chapter `NetHSM introduction <index.html>`__ to learn more.

Integration Into Custom Application
-----------------------------------

To integrate the NetHSM into own custom applications, client libraries are available for almost all programming languages. Here are libraries for `Python <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-sdk-py>`_ and `Rust <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-sdk-rs>`_ as well as `this 3rd party Rust crate <https://crates.io/crates/nethsm>`_. For all other programming languages we recommend using `OpenAPI Generator <https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator>`_.

The list of all available languages can be retrieved as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run --rm -ti openapitools/openapi-generator-cli list -i stable
   
   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti openapitools/openapi-generator-cli list -i stable

The NetHSM client can be generated for your programming language as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run --rm -ti -v "${PWD}/out:/out" openapitools/openapi-generator-cli generate -i=https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml -o out -g javascript

   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti -v "${PWD}/out:/out" openapitools/openapi-generator-cli generate -i=https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml -o out -g javascript

The generated client code, in this example JavaScript, will be created in the ``./out/`` directory.
This folder also contains the necessary documentation how to use it.

.. important::
   If Podman is used with enforcing SELinux, a labeling to the volume mount might be required.
   The mode of SELinux can be requested with ``sestatus |grep "Current mode"``.
   If the mode is set to ``enforcing``, a change to the context is required.
   In this case the volume mount must be postfixed with ``:z``, resulting in ``-v "${PWD}/out:/out:z"``.

Command-line interface
----------------------

Users may administrate and use a NetHSM using a dedicated command-line interface (CLI).
Nitrokey offers ``nitropy``, which is distributed in the Python based `pynitrokey <https://pypi.org/project/pynitrokey/>`_.
With ``nethsm`` an alternative third-party application exists, which is developed in the Rust crate `nethsm-cli <https://crates.io/crates/nethsm-cli/>`_.

Commit message:

Describe limitations for the NetHSM container (#273)
* Describe limitations for the NetHSM container

* Update integration.rst

---------

Co-authored-by: jans23 <jans23@users.noreply.github.com>

nethsm/integration.rst, after:

Integration
===========

The chapter describes processes for various tasks and aims at all user groups.

REST-API
~~~~~~~~

NetHSM's primary interface is a modern REST-API that guarantees best performance and functionality.
The API specification is available in `OpenAPI format <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml>`_,
and can be inspected and tested in the `API browser <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/index.html>`_.

PKCS#11
-------

The NetHSM supports the PKCS#11 standard.
The required driver is available from the `repository <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-pkcs11>`__.
The repository containes the source code and libraries, for different operating systems.
The `PKCS#11 guide <pkcs11-setup.html>`_ describes the usage in detail.

Development and Testing
-----------------------

Demo Instance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

A public NetHSM demo instance is available at `nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com <https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api/v1/info>`_.
It will be reset every eight hours (CET 6:00, 14:00, 22:00). User "admin", password "adminadmin", unlock password "unlockunlock".

Container Image
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The container image is distributed as an OCI image and can be obtained from `Docker Hub <https://hub.docker.com/r/nitrokey/nethsm>`_.
It can be run locally with a compatible executor, e.g. Docker or Podman.

Compared to the NetHSM hardware the following functions are not implemented at software container's REST API:

* network configuration
* factory reset
* reboot
* software update

The container can be executed as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ sudo docker run --rm -ti -p8443:8443 nitrokey/nethsm:testing

   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti -p8443:8443 docker.io/nitrokey/nethsm:testing 

This will run NetHSM as a Unix process inside the container and expose the REST API on the port `8443` via the HTTPS protocol.

Additionaly to running the NetHSM as a Unix process it can be run as a unikernel supported by KVM.

The container can be executed as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run -ti --rm -p 8443:8443 --device /dev/net/tun --device /dev/kvm --cap-add=NET_ADMIN nitrokey/nethsm:testing

This will run NetHSM as a unikernel inside a KVM virtual machine.
The container will expose the REST API, via the HTTPS protocol, on the interface `tap200` with the IP address `192.168.1.100` and port `8443`.

.. important::
   The container uses a self-signed TLS certificate.
   Make sure to use the correct connection settings to establish a connection.
   Please refer to chapter `NetHSM introduction <index.html>`__ to learn more.

Integration Into Custom Application
-----------------------------------

To integrate the NetHSM into own custom applications, client libraries are available for almost all programming languages. Here are libraries for `Python <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-sdk-py>`_ and `Rust <https://github.com/Nitrokey/nethsm-sdk-rs>`_ as well as `this 3rd party Rust crate <https://crates.io/crates/nethsm>`_. For all other programming languages we recommend using `OpenAPI Generator <https://github.com/OpenAPITools/openapi-generator>`_.

The list of all available languages can be retrieved as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run --rm -ti openapitools/openapi-generator-cli list -i stable
   
   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti openapitools/openapi-generator-cli list -i stable

The NetHSM client can be generated for your programming language as follows.

.. tabs::
   .. tab:: Docker
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ docker run --rm -ti -v "${PWD}/out:/out" openapitools/openapi-generator-cli generate -i=https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml -o out -g javascript

   .. tab:: Podman
      .. code-block:: bash

         $ podman run --rm -ti -v "${PWD}/out:/out" openapitools/openapi-generator-cli generate -i=https://nethsmdemo.nitrokey.com/api_docs/nethsm-api.yaml -o out -g javascript

The generated client code, in this example JavaScript, will be created in the ``./out/`` directory.
This folder also contains the necessary documentation how to use it.

.. important::
   If Podman is used with enforcing SELinux, a labeling to the volume mount might be required.
   The mode of SELinux can be requested with ``sestatus |grep "Current mode"``.
   If the mode is set to ``enforcing``, a change to the context is required.
   In this case the volume mount must be postfixed with ``:z``, resulting in ``-v "${PWD}/out:/out:z"``.

Command-line interface
----------------------

Users may administrate and use a NetHSM using a dedicated command-line interface (CLI).
Nitrokey offers ``nitropy``, which is distributed in the Python based `pynitrokey <https://pypi.org/project/pynitrokey/>`_.
With ``nethsm`` an alternative third-party application exists, which is developed in the Rust crate `nethsm-cli <https://crates.io/crates/nethsm-cli/>`_.
