KnotDNS
=======

`KnotDNS <https://www.knot-dns.cz/>`__ is an open source authoritative DNS server that can be used for DNSSEC.

KnotDNS can interface with the NetHSM via the PKCS#11 module please install and configure it as described in the `PKCS#11 setup page <./pkcs11-setup.html>`__.

Manual mode 
-----------

In manual mode the keys have to be generated and managed manually.

Only the operator user is needed in the PKCS#11 module configuration file. The password can be specified using the ``pin-value`` in the `PKCS#11 URI <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7512>`__ in knot.conf.

Add the following lines to the KnotDNS configuration file ``/etc/knot/knot.conf``:

.. code-block:: ini

  keystore:
    - id: nethsm_keystore
      backend: pkcs11
      config: "pkcs11:token=localnethsm /usr/local/lib/libnethsm_pkcs11.so"

  policy:
    - id: manual_policy
      keystore: nethsm_keystore
      manual: on

  zone:
    - domain: example.com
      storage: "/var/lib/knot"
      file: "example.com.zone"
      dnssec-signing: on
      dnssec-policy: manual_policy

The `token` value in the pkcs11 url is the `label` from the `p11nethsm.conf`. Adjust the path to the
`libnethsm_pkcs11.so` as needed.

To generate the keys run the following commands:

.. code-block:: bash

  nitropy nethsm \
    --host "localhost:8443" --no-verify-tls \
    --username "admin" \
    generate-key \
      --type "EC_P256" --mechanism "ECDSA_Signature" --length "256" --key-id "myKSK"
  # knot's keymgr expects the binary key id in hex form
  # myKSK in ascii-binary is 0x6d794b534b, e.g. echo -n "myKSK" | xxd -ps
  keymgr "example.com" import-pkcs11 "6d794b534b" "algorithm=ECDSAP256SHA256" "ksk=yes"

  nitropy nethsm \
    --host "localhost:8443" --no-verify-tls \
    --username "admin" \
    generate-key \
      --type "EC_P256" --mechanism "ECDSA_Signature" --length "256" --key-id "myZSK"
  # myZSK in ascii-binary is 0x6d795a534b
  keymgr "example.com" import-pkcs11 "6d795a534b" "algorithm=ECDSAP256SHA256"


Automatic mode
--------------

In automatic mode the keys are generated by KnotDNS and stored in the NetHSM.

An administrator and an operator user is needed in the PKCS#11 module configuration.

Add the following lines to the KnotDNS configuration file ``/etc/knot/knot.conf``:

.. code-block:: ini

  keystore:
    - id: nethsm_keystore
      backend: pkcs11
      config: "pkcs11:token=localnethsm /usr/local/lib/libnethsm_pkcs11.so"
      #key-label: on

  policy:
    - id: auto_policy
      keystore: nethsm_keystore
      ksk-lifetime: 5m
      zsk-lifetime: 2m
      dnskey-ttl: 10s
      zone-max-ttl: 15s
      propagation-delay: 2s

  zone:
    - domain: example.com
      storage: "/var/lib/knot"
      file: "example.com.zone"
      dnssec-signing: on
      dnssec-policy: auto_policy

Setting `key-label` to `on` doesn't change anything, the pkcs11 module ignores the given label and
always returns the hexadecimal key id as label. The policy uses very short key lifetimes and ttl's
for testing purposes.
