nitrokey3/faq.rst, before:

Nitrokey 3 FAQ
==================

**Q:** Which Operating Systems are supported?
   Windows, Linux and macOS. Also some support for Android and iOS.

**Q:** What can I use the Nitrokey for?
   See the `frontpage`_ for an overview of supported use cases.

**Q:** How can I check if my Nitrokey 3 is working?
   On `WebAuthn.io`_ you can check various high-level functionalities, while
   `webautn.bin.coffee`_ provides good developer level details (technical)
   details. 

**Q:** Where is the right spot for NFC on my smartphone?
   Use `nfc.fail`_ to find the right spot!

**Q:** What happens if I lose my device?
   When securing accounts using FIDO (two-factor authentication and
   passwordless login), you should configure another factor in your account as
   a backup. Depending on the service this backup factor can be a phone number,
   an app or even a second Nitrokey FIDO2. If you lose a device, you
   can still log in with the second Nitrokey (or with another second
   factor).

**Q:** How large is the storage capacity?
   The Nitrokey 3 doesn't contain storage capability for ordinary data (it can
   only store cryptographic keys and certificates).

**Q:** When will the OpenPGP card firmware be available?
   OpenPGP card functionnality is currently available as a beta firmware.
   `The announcement <https://www.nitrokey.com/blog/2022/openpgp-card-alpha-nitrokey-3>`_
   contains more information concerning the current status and installation instructions.


**Q:** Why does the Nitrokey 3 not show up in GnuPG/Nitrokey App/nitropy?
   Currently the Nitrokey 3 does only show up and can be managed in
   ``nitropy``. Nitrokey App and GnuPG will likely be only available once
   the firware update is available for the OpenPGP card.

**Q:** How can I set the PIN for my Nitrokey 3?
   On GNU+Linux and macOS you can configure and do basic settings for your Nitrokey 3 using Chrome(ium)
   just visit: `chrome://settings/securityKeys`_ (clicking the link will not work
   for security reasons, please copy&paste it)
   
   On Windows type "Security Keys" into the search bar on the bottom left and click the first result. Then click "Security Keys" and "Manage".
   Now follow the onscreen instructions.

**Q:** Is the Nitrokey 3 Common Criteria or FIPS certified?
   The secure element is Common Criteria EAL 6+ security certification up to OS 
   level (See `here`_, click “ICs, Smart Cards and Smart Card-Related Devices and 
   Systems” and search for: "NXP JCOP 4 SE050M”).

.. include:: ../shared-faqs/hyperlinks.rst

Commit message:

Update openpgp documentation to reflect installation for Nitrokey 3

nitrokey3/faq.rst, after:

Nitrokey 3 FAQ
==================

**Q:** Which Operating Systems are supported?
   Windows, Linux and macOS. Also some support for Android and iOS.

**Q:** What can I use the Nitrokey for?
   See the `frontpage`_ for an overview of supported use cases.

**Q:** How can I check if my Nitrokey 3 is working?
   On `WebAuthn.io`_ you can check various high-level functionalities, while
   `webautn.bin.coffee`_ provides good developer level details (technical)
   details. 

**Q:** Where is the right spot for NFC on my smartphone?
   Use `nfc.fail`_ to find the right spot!

**Q:** What happens if I lose my device?
   When securing accounts using FIDO (two-factor authentication and
   passwordless login), you should configure another factor in your account as
   a backup. Depending on the service this backup factor can be a phone number,
   an app or even a second Nitrokey FIDO2. If you lose a device, you
   can still log in with the second Nitrokey (or with another second
   factor).

**Q:** How large is the storage capacity?
   The Nitrokey 3 doesn't contain storage capability for ordinary data (it can
   only store cryptographic keys and certificates).

**Q:** Why does the Nitrokey 3 not show up in GnuPG
   Make sure to install a firmware more recent than version 1.4.0.
   For more information, see the firmware-update page for your operating system.

**Q:** Why does the Nitrokey 3 not show up in Nitrokey App?
   Nitrokey 3 does only show up and can be managed in "nitropy" and "Nitrokey App 2, not in Nitrokey App 1".

.. include:: ../shared-faqs/algos.rst 

**Q:** How can I set the PIN for my Nitrokey 3?
   On Linux and macOS you can configure and do basic settings for your Nitrokey 3 using Chrome(ium)
   just visit: `chrome://settings/securityKeys`_ (clicking the link will not work
   for security reasons, please copy&paste it)
   
   On Windows type "Security Keys" into the search bar on the bottom left and click the first result. Then click "Security Keys" and "Manage".
   Now follow the onscreen instructions.

**Q:** Is the Nitrokey 3 Common Criteria or FIPS certified?
   The secure element is Common Criteria EAL 6+ security certification up to OS 
   level (See `here`_, click “ICs, Smart Cards and Smart Card-Related Devices and 
   Systems” and search for: "NXP JCOP 4 SE050M”).

.. include:: ../shared-faqs/hyperlinks.rst
