nitropad/ubuntu/index.rst, before:

NitroPad with Ubuntu Linux
==========================

.. include:: ../content/shared-index-content1.rst

Getting Started
---------------

After purchase, the passwords are set to a default value and must be
changed by you:

1. Press Enter (“Default Boot”) after booting the system, provided the
   NitroPad has not shown any errors and the Nitrokey is lit green (see
   above).

2. Next, the system will prompt you to enter the passphrase to decrypt
   the hard disk. The passphrase is initially "12345678". This was changed on the 10.04.2024 so if "12345678" is not working try the old default: "PleaseChangeMe" 

   .. figure:: ./images/UbuntuDiskPassword.png
      :alt: img3

3. The system will then guide you through the process of creating a user
   account. After that you should have successfully booted the system
   and could already use it normally.

4. Open the pre-installed Nitrokey App and change the PINs of your
   Nitrokey. To learn more about how to change the PINs, please refer to chapter `Change User and Admin PIN <change-pins.html>`_.

5. Change the passphrase for disk encryption.
   To learn more about how to change the passphrase for disk encryption, please refer to chapter `Change Disk Encryption Passphrase <change-disk-encryption-passphrase.html>`_.
   This passphrase is different from your user acount's passphrase.

.. include:: ../content/shared-index-content2.rst

Commit message:

add Workaround for Nitropads with Ubuntu 24.04

nitropad/ubuntu/index.rst, after:

NitroPad with Ubuntu Linux
==========================

.. include:: ../content/shared-index-content1.rst

Workaround Ubuntu 24.04.
------------------------

There is an (`issue <https://github.com/linuxboot/heads/issues/1641>`__)that prevents Ubuntu to show the luks decryption screen if started with heads. Its there and you can type in your password blindly, after that Ubuntu starts normal. 
Follow these Steps: 

1. Heads starts. If nothing needs to be done, Ubuntu will start automatically

2. After a while, you will see a black screen with white writing on the last lines:         

.. code-block::

   Locking TPM2 platform hierarchy...  
   Starting the new kernel


These lines indicate that Ubuntu is starting.

3. Wait **5 seconds** and then enter your **password** ("12345678" if you are starting it for the first time) followed by **Enter**.

4. Now you will see the normal Ubuntu screen. When you start for the first time, you must complete the initial configuration. 

Getting Started
---------------

After purchase, the passwords are set to a default value and must be
changed by you:

1. Press Enter (“Default Boot”) after booting the system, provided the
   NitroPad has not shown any errors and the Nitrokey is lit green (see
   above).

2. Next, the system will prompt you to enter the passphrase to decrypt
   the hard disk. The passphrase is initially "12345678". This was changed on the 10.04.2024 so if "12345678" is not working try the old default: "PleaseChangeMe" 

   .. figure:: ./images/UbuntuDiskPassword.png
      :alt: img3

3. The system will then guide you through the process of creating a user
   account. After that you should have successfully booted the system
   and could already use it normally.

4. Open the pre-installed Nitrokey App and change the PINs of your
   Nitrokey. To learn more about how to change the PINs, please refer to chapter `Change User and Admin PIN <change-pins.html>`_.

5. Change the passphrase for disk encryption.
   To learn more about how to change the passphrase for disk encryption, please refer to chapter `Change Disk Encryption Passphrase <change-disk-encryption-passphrase.html>`_.
   This passphrase is different from your user acount's passphrase.

.. include:: ../content/shared-index-content2.rst
