nitrokey3/windows/piv.rst, before:

Windows Login With PIV Smartcard Authentication
===============================================

This document explains how to provision the PIV function of a Nitrokey 3  for Windows smartcard logon manually with a key and a certificate.

In the future, this manual provisioning may be automated through a Windows MiniDriver.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  A Windows server with:

   -  Active Directory (`instructions <https://serverspace.io/support/help/installing-active-directory-on-windows-server-2019/>`__)
   -  A certificate authority (CA), with a certificate template for logon authentication using RSA 2048 bit keys:

      -  Certificate Authority (`instructions <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/core-network-guide/cncg/server-certs/server-certificate-deployment-overview>`__)
      -  Authentication template (`instructions <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/configure-the-workstation-authentication-certificate-template>`__)

-  A Windows user machine joined to the domain of the server
-  A Nitrokey 3 with
   `PIV <https://github.com/Nitrokey/piv-authenticator>`__
-  A Linux system with `pivy <https://github.com/arekinath/pivy>`__ and PCSCD installed (``sudo apt install pcscd``), to provision the Nitrokey (step 1, 2 and 4). Instead of a separate Linux system you can `install WSL <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install>`__ on Windows. Note that you need to `virtually attach <https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/connecting-usb-devices-to-wsl/>`__ the Nitrokey to WSL and start PCSCD (``sudo service start pcscd``) before using pivy.

1: Generate a key on the Nitrokey
---------------------------------

The key is generated in slot 9A (authentication).

::

      pivy-tool generate 9A -a rsa2048

.. note::

   If the administration key is not the default one, it can be specified with ``-A 3des -K 010203040506070801020304050607080102030405060708`` . The argument to ``-A`` can also be ``aes256``, and the argument to ``-K`` is the key in hexadecimal. 

The user PIN can also be specified with ``-P 123456``, or ``-P <value>`` if it is not the default. If ``-P`` is not provided, it will be asked for after key generation.

This applies to all ``pivy-tool`` commands.

This step can take a couple of minutes for RSA keys, as the pure software implementation is slow.

**Expected output**:

::

   ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDKO5ENwrK3qKBAgDkyq1tfiw5JxnoCEIiM3Vc+8Eylux04r1sgjHEyqbOvpScObZuchxFZZ5LdeHynvFn3c07K4HpoZ/7NjLzUYOmlVAy4wpEwRs9psbrT6wbvHVLyffZiiSPW15HHQKcUZZ30WDunh5m7xzvY9ej810QIW/P724MFWTbRdpqmG8m1qWCUM5dqkmpiprI/WeD+VmTcQWbJJ+oyoPyxmwzGyAotl7mVC6EYdcfvyBSNQdVdGfYGxjNEec4aWxoFRg4ADfpPnYD+gLxHcj/9s7o/wdMhXRiSio1tjsEjaeuOICGLaiiLGMfLxpfEApb8qJgsEFgYl6kn PIV_slot_9A@9E424375A38449E59B3DF89D9B90E601

2: Generate a Certificate Signing Request (CSR)
-----------------------------------------------

This step generates a certificate for the key in the authentication slot. ``pivy-tool req-cert 9A -n 'Nitro Test' -u "nitro@test.nitrokey.com" -T user-auth``

The ``Nitro Test`` username and the ``nitro@test.nitrokey.com`` email address must be changed to own values.

Expected output:

::

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----
   MIIC4DCCAcgCAQEwFTETMBEGA1UEAwwKTml0cm8gVGVzdDCCASIwDQYJKoZIhvcN
   AQEBBQADggEPADCCAQoCggEBAMo7kQ3CsreooECAOTKrW1+LDknGegIQiIzdVz7w
   TKW7HTivWyCMcTKps6+lJw5tm5yHEVlnkt14fKe8WfdzTsrgemhn/s2MvNRg6aVU
   DLjCkTBGz2mxutPrBu8dUvJ99mKJI9bXkcdApxRlnfRYO6eHmbvHO9j16PzXRAhb
   8/vbgwVZNtF2mqYbybWpYJQzl2qSamKmsj9Z4P5WZNxBZskn6jKg/LGbDMbICi2X
   uZULoRh1x+/IFI1B1V0Z9gbGM0R5zhpbGgVGDgAN+k+dgP6AvEdyP/2zuj/B0yFd
   GJKKjW2OwSNp644gIYtqKIsYx8vGl8QClvyomCwQWBiXqScCAwEAAaCBhTCBggYJ
   KoZIhvcNAQkOMXUwczAMBgNVHRMBAf8EAjAAMA4GA1UdDwEB/wQEAwIGwDAfBgNV
   HSUEGDAWBggrBgEFBQcDAgYKKwYBBAGCNxQCAjAyBgNVHREEKzApoCcGCisGAQQB
   gjcUAgOgGQwXbml0cm9AdGVzdC5uaXRyb2tleS5jb20wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAD
   ggEBAH6XBlBmc7dQP0mt7uXOyIu8xRSYSfxKBJGjPl0IKDHWke3/4frU5C99/KS/
   b9/T4JrlZa/9letjMj8hV4a+pdE0Gpxy+Ac1a9XlMki35UESOXC0JSyirBBLnNtD
   qtHKtfPeQ3Csbsj57qjdqBMlWII5cz3jO9EpEG2FgxreJwY5s58KuKit01AJDIWt
   GYg9P7MblEEO8iPjcFqccsPTRgU04COT6dOFZ8bGZ18UsnAVMXPOdcR7cppp8mL+
   QZCyqdk1m+91rtkJPkqVUK/0o8MJj5k3Ch4ANvQEWnOabRumJaHDu4PmhsqLnQJA
   eGQvuPRBmR71GRkGmqu+e1oyze8=
   -----END CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----

Copy the certificate signing request to a file ``request.csr``

3: Sign the CSR
---------------

Move the request.csr file from the previous step to the server that hosts the certificate authority. Verify in the certificate template console (``certtmpl.msc`` ) that the template for the users can accept subject names from the request:

.. figure:: images/piv/certtmpl-SN.png
   :alt: In the certificate template console, in the parameter for the authentication certificate template, toggle "supply in request" in the "subject name" tab.

Open PowerShell and sign the certificate signing request with ``certreq.exe -attrib CertificateTemplate:Nitrotest -submit request.csr``

This will open a GUI where you can select the correct Certificate Authority if there are multiple on this server. Save the certificate as ``certificate.crt``

4: Store the certificate on the Nitrokey
----------------------------------------

``cat certificate.der | pivy-tool write-cert 9A``

5: Import the certificate to the user account
---------------------------------------------

Move ``certificate.der`` to the user Windows device, and open the certificate manager (**For the user, not the machine**):

.. figure:: images/piv/user-cert.png
   :alt: Open the "manage user certificate control panel"

Import the certificate:

.. figure:: images/piv/import-cert.png
   :alt: In actions, all tasks, you can find the import action

Once this is done, log out. Log in with the Nitrokey by using the “sign-in options”

Commit message:

PIV: add unstability warning and installation instructions (#200)
* PIV: add unstability warning and installation instructions

* Update piv.rst

---------

Co-authored-by: jans23 <jans23@users.noreply.github.com>

nitrokey3/windows/piv.rst, after:

Windows Login With PIV Smartcard Authentication
===============================================

This document explains how to provision the PIV function of a Nitrokey 3  for Windows smartcard logon manually with a key and a certificate.

In the future, this manual provisioning may be automated through a Windows MiniDriver.

.. warning::
   The PIV function of the Nitrokey 3 is currently considered unstable and is not available on the stable firmware releases.
   To obtain that functionality it is required to install a test firmware. Subsequent firmware updates may lead to loss of data and cryptographic keys.
   Please refer to `the firmware update documentation <firmware-update.html#firmware-release-types>`__ for more information.

Prerequisites
-------------

-  A Windows server with:

   -  Active Directory (`instructions <https://serverspace.io/support/help/installing-active-directory-on-windows-server-2019/>`__)
   -  A certificate authority (CA), with a certificate template for logon authentication using RSA 2048 bit keys:

      -  Certificate Authority (`instructions <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/networking/core-network-guide/cncg/server-certs/server-certificate-deployment-overview>`__)
      -  Authentication template (`instructions <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/security/threat-protection/windows-firewall/configure-the-workstation-authentication-certificate-template>`__)

-  A Windows user machine joined to the domain of the server
-  A Nitrokey 3 with
   `PIV <https://github.com/Nitrokey/piv-authenticator>`__
-  A Linux system with `pivy <https://github.com/arekinath/pivy>`__ and PCSCD installed (``sudo apt install pcscd``), to provision the Nitrokey (step 1, 2 and 4). Instead of a separate Linux system you can `install WSL <https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install>`__ on Windows. Note that you need to `virtually attach <https://devblogs.microsoft.com/commandline/connecting-usb-devices-to-wsl/>`__ the Nitrokey to WSL and start PCSCD (``sudo service start pcscd``) before using pivy.

1: Generate a key on the Nitrokey
---------------------------------

The key is generated in slot 9A (authentication).

::

      pivy-tool generate 9A -a rsa2048

.. note::

   If the administration key is not the default one, it can be specified with ``-A 3des -K 010203040506070801020304050607080102030405060708`` . The argument to ``-A`` can also be ``aes256``, and the argument to ``-K`` is the key in hexadecimal. 

The user PIN can also be specified with ``-P 123456``, or ``-P <value>`` if it is not the default. If ``-P`` is not provided, it will be asked for after key generation.

This applies to all ``pivy-tool`` commands.

This step can take a couple of minutes for RSA keys, as the pure software implementation is slow.

**Expected output**:

::

   ssh-rsa AAAAB3NzaC1yc2EAAAADAQABAAABAQDKO5ENwrK3qKBAgDkyq1tfiw5JxnoCEIiM3Vc+8Eylux04r1sgjHEyqbOvpScObZuchxFZZ5LdeHynvFn3c07K4HpoZ/7NjLzUYOmlVAy4wpEwRs9psbrT6wbvHVLyffZiiSPW15HHQKcUZZ30WDunh5m7xzvY9ej810QIW/P724MFWTbRdpqmG8m1qWCUM5dqkmpiprI/WeD+VmTcQWbJJ+oyoPyxmwzGyAotl7mVC6EYdcfvyBSNQdVdGfYGxjNEec4aWxoFRg4ADfpPnYD+gLxHcj/9s7o/wdMhXRiSio1tjsEjaeuOICGLaiiLGMfLxpfEApb8qJgsEFgYl6kn PIV_slot_9A@9E424375A38449E59B3DF89D9B90E601

2: Generate a Certificate Signing Request (CSR)
-----------------------------------------------

This step generates a certificate for the key in the authentication slot. ``pivy-tool req-cert 9A -n 'Nitro Test' -u "nitro@test.nitrokey.com" -T user-auth``

The ``Nitro Test`` username and the ``nitro@test.nitrokey.com`` email address must be changed to own values.

Expected output:

::

   -----BEGIN CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----
   MIIC4DCCAcgCAQEwFTETMBEGA1UEAwwKTml0cm8gVGVzdDCCASIwDQYJKoZIhvcN
   AQEBBQADggEPADCCAQoCggEBAMo7kQ3CsreooECAOTKrW1+LDknGegIQiIzdVz7w
   TKW7HTivWyCMcTKps6+lJw5tm5yHEVlnkt14fKe8WfdzTsrgemhn/s2MvNRg6aVU
   DLjCkTBGz2mxutPrBu8dUvJ99mKJI9bXkcdApxRlnfRYO6eHmbvHO9j16PzXRAhb
   8/vbgwVZNtF2mqYbybWpYJQzl2qSamKmsj9Z4P5WZNxBZskn6jKg/LGbDMbICi2X
   uZULoRh1x+/IFI1B1V0Z9gbGM0R5zhpbGgVGDgAN+k+dgP6AvEdyP/2zuj/B0yFd
   GJKKjW2OwSNp644gIYtqKIsYx8vGl8QClvyomCwQWBiXqScCAwEAAaCBhTCBggYJ
   KoZIhvcNAQkOMXUwczAMBgNVHRMBAf8EAjAAMA4GA1UdDwEB/wQEAwIGwDAfBgNV
   HSUEGDAWBggrBgEFBQcDAgYKKwYBBAGCNxQCAjAyBgNVHREEKzApoCcGCisGAQQB
   gjcUAgOgGQwXbml0cm9AdGVzdC5uaXRyb2tleS5jb20wDQYJKoZIhvcNAQELBQAD
   ggEBAH6XBlBmc7dQP0mt7uXOyIu8xRSYSfxKBJGjPl0IKDHWke3/4frU5C99/KS/
   b9/T4JrlZa/9letjMj8hV4a+pdE0Gpxy+Ac1a9XlMki35UESOXC0JSyirBBLnNtD
   qtHKtfPeQ3Csbsj57qjdqBMlWII5cz3jO9EpEG2FgxreJwY5s58KuKit01AJDIWt
   GYg9P7MblEEO8iPjcFqccsPTRgU04COT6dOFZ8bGZ18UsnAVMXPOdcR7cppp8mL+
   QZCyqdk1m+91rtkJPkqVUK/0o8MJj5k3Ch4ANvQEWnOabRumJaHDu4PmhsqLnQJA
   eGQvuPRBmR71GRkGmqu+e1oyze8=
   -----END CERTIFICATE REQUEST-----

Copy the certificate signing request to a file ``request.csr``

3: Sign the CSR
---------------

Move the request.csr file from the previous step to the server that hosts the certificate authority. Verify in the certificate template console (``certtmpl.msc`` ) that the template for the users can accept subject names from the request:

.. figure:: images/piv/certtmpl-SN.png
   :alt: In the certificate template console, in the parameter for the authentication certificate template, toggle "supply in request" in the "subject name" tab.

Open PowerShell and sign the certificate signing request with ``certreq.exe -attrib CertificateTemplate:Nitrotest -submit request.csr``

This will open a GUI where you can select the correct Certificate Authority if there are multiple on this server. Save the certificate as ``certificate.crt``

4: Store the certificate on the Nitrokey
----------------------------------------

``cat certificate.der | pivy-tool write-cert 9A``

5: Import the certificate to the user account
---------------------------------------------

Move ``certificate.der`` to the user Windows device, and open the certificate manager (**For the user, not the machine**):

.. figure:: images/piv/user-cert.png
   :alt: Open the "manage user certificate control panel"

Import the certificate:

.. figure:: images/piv/import-cert.png
   :alt: In actions, all tasks, you can find the import action

Once this is done, log out. Log in with the Nitrokey by using the “sign-in options”
